<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch009.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="influences-and-inspirations-for-the-pompeii-project-i.r.a.r.a.h" class="level1">
<h1>Influences and Inspirations for The Pompeii Project I.R.A.R.A.H</h1>
<p>The Pompeii Project I.R.A.R.A.H. is strongly influenced by the thoughts and ideas of my parents, Teilhard de Chardin, Stanislaw Lem and David Deutsch. These influences have significantly shaped my worldview and the themes explored in the story.</p>
<p>The plot was also influenced by various thinkers, including Yuval Noah Harari, David Deutsch, Andre W. Trask and others. Their considerations are reflected in the way the story is told and the central conflicts are developed.</p>
<p>However, the characters, plot and narrative structure are the result of my own work and mistakes. I spent numerous hours checking the plot and characters for consistency and coherence with H.K., E.H., J.S., as well as with the support of ChatGPT, Google and Bing.</p>
<p>For the visual design and chapter headings, I used text-to-image AI programs that provided me with creative and freely available images.</p>
<p>The motifs that play a role in the narrative - such as city states, escape, information gathering, espionage and artificial intelligence - can be found in the works of H.G. Wells, Herbert W. Franke, William F. Nolan, George Clayton Johnson, as well as in the writings of Harari, Lem and Deutsch. These literary and philosophical influences have shaped the world of The Pompeii Project I.R.A.R.A.H. decisively shaped and enriched.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
