<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch002.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="the-great-or-nicene-constantinopolitan-creed" class="level1">
<h1> The Great or Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed</h1>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<h3 id="the-great-or-nicene-constantinopolitan-creed-1">The Great or Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed</h3>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>My interpretation</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>I believe in one God,</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>I believe in the One and All is One.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>the Father Almighty, who created everything, heaven and earth, the visible and the invisible world.</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>The almighty potential of all possibilities, the beginning, of our world and all possible worlds, before all time and outside of space and time, invisible to one another, visible to itself. All form of the same form and all substance of the same substance.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, born of the Father before all ages, God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made, of one being with the Father; through him all things were created.</p>
<p>For us humans and for our salvation he came down from heaven, took on flesh through the Holy Spirit of the Virgin Mary and became man.</p>
<p>He was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, suffered and was buried, rose again on the third day according to the Scriptures, and ascended into heaven. He sits at the right hand of the Father and will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead. Of his kingdom there will be no end.</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>And to the omniscient end outside of space and time. Knowing all (indistinguishable from knowing and risen, therefore, like us, begotten, not created, born, knowing, conscientious, lived, loved, suffered, risen, of one being and indistinguishable from the beginning.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord and giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son, who with the Father and the Son is worshipped and glorified, who spoke through the prophets,</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>And I believe in the all-living (co-knowing, realizing) and dominating possible worlds (possibilities, superimposing, reinforcing), before all time and outside of space and time, of one being and indistinguishable from beginning and end.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>and one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church. I confess one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>And the one, holy, universal community, born of the incarnation of the omniscient End, which raises us up anew.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>I await the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come.</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>I await the resurrection of all those who have lived and could have lived (omniscient, all possibilities, co-knowledge, conscientia) and eternal life on a new earth and under a new heaven in new bodies.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>Amen.</p>
</div></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"><div class="minipage">
<p>Amen.</p>
</div></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
<td style="text-align: left;"></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</section>
</body>
</html>
