<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch009.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="back-at-the-college" class="level1">
<h1>Back at the college</h1>
<p>After his arrival, Michael made his way to the Collegium Germanicum et Hungaricum for 15 minutes. In the office he found Maria happy and bright as always. “Hello Maria, here I am again. Can you make an appointment for me with the rector and the provincial?” he greeted her. “You look wonderful, the dress suits you very well.”</p>
<p>“Thank you, Michael. I would be happy to make an appointment. Should I write down a keyword for it?”</p>
<p>“Yes, please write: Report on the Pompeii project,” replied Michael. He added: “I will explain to the rector personally why the provincial has to be there as soon as I meet him.” He hesitated for a moment, then asked: “How is your father? Has his pension been approved?”</p>
<p>He asked the question because he couldn't get Martina's thoughts out of his head during the train ride. It was true that when you were doing well, you could easily forget about other people's worries. And what were suffering software agents if one overlooked the suffering of their fellow human beings?</p>
<p>After saying goodbye, Michael went to his compartment and sorted through the mail. Everything else could wait. He brought his suitcase to his room, put the unused laundry in the closet and took the rest to the laundry room. Afterwards he took a shower.</p>
<p>In the dining room he took his napkin and sat down with the seminarians whose spiritual director he was. He immersed himself in small talk and enjoyed the company. He was fine, he knew that. That's what he had always wanted. He just had to watch his heart, Martina was right. He fell asleep and dreamed of ARS, Attilus, Martina and Julia.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
