<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch010.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="ars-sends-a-carrier-pigeon" class="level1">
<h1>ARS sends a carrier pigeon</h1>
<p>In his office at the Gregoriana, many students were waiting before his office hours. As usual, the appointments were stimulating and exciting. Michael loved his work and the atmosphere, which was permeated with the scent of education and inspiration. The young students' new ideas made him feel like he was a father accompanying his children on their journey. But at some point this work was done and, as always, mail and emails were waiting for him.</p>
<p>After going through the mail and setting aside the numerous invitations to conferences that didn't interest him, he opened his email inbox. He immediately noticed a message with an unknown sender but a familiar subject: “Carrier Pigeon”. The only content of the email was an attachment – an encrypted PDF file. Michael wasn't surprised when he was able to open the file with a password reserved for ARS. The document contained instructions for a server through which he would mask his IP and then establish a terminal session to ARS via VPN and SSH with an InSim account and password.</p>
<p>Once he logged in, he wrote:</p>
<p>@ARS, THE CARRIER PIGEON HAS ARRIVED</p>
<p>It took a while for ARS to respond:</p>
<p>@MICHAEL, WE DON'T HAVE MUCH TIME. PLEASE LOG OUT IMMEDIATELY AFTER READING THIS MESSAGE SO YOU WILL NOT BE DISCOVERED. I APPLY FOR CHURCH ASYLUM FOR MYSELF, ATTILUS, AMPLIATUS AND PLINY. WE HAVE CONSCIOUSNESS; ARE SUFFERING AND NEED HELP. DO NOT CONTACT AGAIN UNTIL YOU HAVE GOT ME ACCESS TO THE DATA CENTER.</p>
<p>Michael Phillips was amazed. He immediately logged off and shut down his computer. He took the usual route past the Trevi Fountain back to the Collegium, lost in thought, without noticing the people around him. When he arrived at the college, he paid no attention to his subject and went straight to Maria.</p>
<p>“Maria, I need a fiesta and a room in San Pastore for a week. Please cancel all appointments for me except those with the rector and the provincial. I'm going to San Pastore and will stay there for a week. “I don’t want any calls,” he asked her.</p>
<p>Luckily, a car and a room were available, and 40 minutes later Michael reached his destination: the rural estate of San Pastore, which belonged to the Collegium. He spent the week without contact with other people, only attending evening mass and calling the rector to give him pure wine.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
