<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch020.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="sources" class="level1">
<h1>Sources: </h1>
<p>Figure for the software agents: Aquarius Marcus Attilius Primus, Gaius Plinius Secundus Maior (historical personality) and Ampliatus Popidius, Harris, R.: Pompeii 2003 ISBN-13: 978-3453877481 Term zone of silence: ARS thus names Teilhard de Chardin's omega point Lem, S.: Also sprach Golem, 11. Edition 1986 ISBN-13 : 978-3518377666 Stadtplan von Pompeji und Leben in der Stadt: Beard, Mary. Pompeji: Das Leben in einer römischen Stadt 2008 ISBN 978-3-10-490470-2 The idea of the personality inventory and the dialogue grammar (inductor, parser, transducer) developed by the character Michael Phillips goes back to Paul Koop's own developments</p>
<p>Pompeii Project Glossary: IRARAH</p>
<p>Theological and ecclesiastical terms</p>
<p>1. Pre-Reformation Church:</p>
<p>- Definition: The Catholic Church, with a central understanding of office and sacraments, and the Orthodox churches. The Catholic and Orthodox Churches share the same understanding of the seven sacraments and apostolic succession.</p>
<p>- Meaning: The story takes place in the setting of this church, which exists in a traditional form, similar to before the Reformation.</p>
<p>2. Jesuit Order (Society of Jesus):</p>
<p>- Definition: A Catholic order, 1540 Ignatius of Loyola, focus on education</p>
<p>- Ranks in the Order:</p>
<p>- Brother: Member of the order without ordination</p>
<p>- Father: Priest who administers sacraments and carries out pastoral tasks.</p>
<p>- Rector: Head of a Jesuit educational institution.</p>
<p>- Provincial: Supreme person in charge of a province of the Order.</p>
<p>3. Vatican:</p>
<p>- Definition: The sovereign city-state and seat of the Pope, the center of the Roman Catholic Church.</p>
<p>- Meaning: The Vatican is the scene of central events and a symbol of the theological and spiritual power of the Church in history.</p>
<p>4th Pope:</p>
<p>- Definition: The spiritual leader of the Catholic Church, successor to the Apostle Peter.</p>
<p>- Meaning: The Pope has supreme authority in the Catholic Church, especially in matters of doctrine and faith.</p>
<p>5. Castel Gandolfo:</p>
<p>- Definition: The Pope's summer residence south of Rome.</p>
<p>- Significance: Used as an important retreat and for strategic meetings.</p>
<p>6. Sammartini Refuge (Caritas Mailand):</p>
<p>- Definition: A Caritas homeless shelter in Milan.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Location of the meeting between Michael and an activist from IRARAH.</p>
<p>7. Omega point (monism):</p>
<p>- Definition: A concept by Teilhard de Chardin that humanity strives toward an end point, the Omega Point, where spirit and matter merge into one.</p>
<p>- Meaning: The Omega point represents the connection between technology and spirit, which is in contrast to dualism, which is rejected in the church due to its proximity to Gnosis.</p>
<p>8. Traditionalists (Dualism):</p>
<p>- Definition: For the Catholic traditionalism (also: Traditionalist movement) are currents within the <a href="https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%B6misch-katholische_Kirche">Roman Catholic Church</a> calculated, which in particular includes the ecclesiastical reforms and renewal efforts from the period during and after <a href="https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zweites_Vatikanisches_Konzil">Second Vatican Council</a> (1962–1965) fundamentally criticize, reject or fight. Their thinking is mostly dualistic. Theologians who adhere to the separation of spirit and matter, which is associated with dualism.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Dualism, especially in Gnostic form, is rejected by the Catholic Church, which increases the philosophical tensions in the story.</p>
<p>9. Gregoriana (Pontifical Gregorian University):</p>
<p>- Definition: A leading Jesuit university in Rome.</p>
<p>- Significance: Educational institution for theologians and important institution in Catholic education.</p>
<p>10. German and Hungarian College:</p>
<p>- Definition: A seminary in Rome for the training of German-speaking and Hungarian priests.</p>
<p>- Significance: Important training location for priests who have a connection to Germany and Hungary.</p>
<p>11. Saint Shepherd:</p>
<p>- Definition: An estate of the Collegium Germanicum outside Rome.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Retreat for seminarians for spiritual recovery.</p>
<p>12. Catholic Social Teaching:</p>
<p>Catholic social teaching is based on timeless social principles that are based on the Christian view of humanity. These principles are to be understood as both principles of being and of what should be for social interaction and offer a lot of scope for discretion. Oswald von Nell-Breuning therefore aptly describes them as the “building laws of society”. They are considered basic guidelines for structure and procedures in social life. In addition to the principle of personality, these principles include:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>the principle of subsidiarity,</p></li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li><p>the solidarity principle and</p></li>
<li><p>the common good principle.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>Technical and philosophical terms</p>
<p>1. Generativ Pretrained Transformer (GPT):</p>
<p>- Definition: A machine learning model trained on sets of text and capable of understanding and generating natural language.</p>
<p>- Meaning: In the story, GPT is used to optimize the dialogues and interactions in the Pompeii simulation.</p>
<p>2. Transform (the word vector):</p>
<p>- Definition: A machine learning architecture that captures semantic relationships between words.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Optimization of language models and dialogues in the simulation.</p>
<p>3. Neural Networks:</p>
<p>- Definition: Learning systems that mimic the brain to recognize patterns and make decisions.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Neural networks control the AI in the story and are central to the simulations.</p>
<p>4. Decision tables:</p>
<p>- Definition: Tables for the formal presentation of decisions and their results.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Automation of decision-making processes in AI simulation.</p>
<p>5. The dialogue grammar:</p>
<p>- Definition: Structures that define the rules of dialogues between humans and AI.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Basis for simulating conversations in the Pompeii simulation.</p>
<p>6. Consciousness:</p>
<p>- Definition: The state of understanding and perception in a system.</p>
<p>- Meaning: The story reflects the topic of consciousness in the AI ARS.</p>
<p>7. Consciousness and Many Worlds Interpretation:</p>
<p>- Definition: A quantum mechanics theory that states that alternative versions of reality exist in parallel.</p>
<p>- Meaning: In the story, this idea is used to support Martina's speculations about alternative versions of Michael.</p>
<p>8. Multiversum:</p>
<p>- Definition: A concept that states that multiple parallel universes exist.</p>
<p>- Meaning: In the story, the multiverse is discussed through the possibility of a Michael doppelganger.</p>
<p>9. Posthumanism:</p>
<p>- Definition: A philosophical movement that questions human limitations through technology.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Plays an important role in the story in the conflict between technology and humanity.</p>
<p>10. Transhumanism:</p>
<p>- Definition: A movement committed to human betterment through technology.</p>
<p>- Meaning: Core to the conflicts in the story, as technological advances challenge human nature.</p>
<p>People and concepts</p>
<p>1. Dr. Michael Phillips:</p>
<p>- Role: Protagonist, Jesuit and expert in dialogue technology.</p>
<p>- Ideas: Stands for ethics in technology and doubts radical posthumanist ideals.</p>
<p>2. Dr. Martina Rossi:</p>
<p>- Role: Daughter of Michael, historian who studies the relevance of ancient history to the present.</p>
<p>- Ideas: Critical of technological progress and its consequences, questions posthumanist ideologies.</p>
<p>3. Yuval Noah Harari:</p>
<p>- Role: Historian whose ideas are central to the warning in the letter.</p>
<p>- Ideas: Criticizes humanism and liberal democracy, warns of the potential dangers of technological progress.</p>
<p>4. Alexander Dugin:</p>
<p>- Role: Russian political scientist who calls for a multipolar world order.</p>
<p>- Ideas: Anti-Western and anti-liberal ideology that questions Western values such as democracy and freedom.</p>
<p>5. David German:</p>
<p>- Role: Physicist and philosopher, known for his work on quantum mechanics and open society.</p>
<p>- Ideas: Advocates critical rationality and an open society, as opposed to holistic ideologies.</p>
<p>6. IRARAH:</p>
<p>- Definition: A secret underground movement against neoliberal structures and technocratic elites.</p>
<p>- Meaning: In the story, IRARAH fights for social justice and the preservation of humanistic values.</p>
<p>The Faith of Michael Phillips: Between Science and Theology</p>
<p>Michael Phillips, the protagonist of the Pompeii Project, lives in a fascinating intersection between modern science and deep-rooted faith. His beliefs combine central elements of the Christian creed with philosophical concepts of the Omega point, as represented by Teilhard de Chardin, and the scientifically inspired epistemologies of David Deutsch. In doing so, he clearly distances himself from the technocratic and authoritarian approaches of thinkers such as Yuval Noah Harari and Alexander Dugin.</p>
<p>Basis of faith: Apostles' and Nicene Creeds</p>
<p>Michael Phillips' faith is based on the Apostles' and Nicene Creeds, the cornerstones of Christian theology formulated in the early centuries of the Church. He believes in a God who intervenes in the history of humanity as Creator and Redeemer, and in Jesus Christ, whose death and resurrection makes the salvation of humanity possible. These central beliefs are anchored in the Catholic sacraments and tradition, which Michael deeply internalized as a Jesuit.</p>
<p>But Michael goes beyond a dogmatic understanding. His discussion of the Omega Point – a theory developed by Teilhard de Chardin – connects Catholic theology with an evolutionary worldview. The Omega Point describes the goal of evolution, where humanity and the universe complete themselves in a unity of spirit and matter. Michael sees this goal as a parallel to the Christian doctrine of the resurrection and return of Christ. But instead of just waiting for an otherworldly paradise, he sees the evolution of knowledge and technology as a form of divine revelation.</p>
<p>Michael Phillips and David Deutsch: Falsificationism and the pursuit of knowledge</p>
<p>Michael Phillips' faith is strongly influenced by Karl Popper and David Deutsch. Popper taught that knowledge is never absolute but must always be verified through falsification. For Michael, this means that faith must not contradict science. For him, falsificationism is the best method for finding the truth and that is why he rejects holistic and totalitarian approaches such as those of Harari or Dugin.</p>
<p>Deutsch, on the other hand, emphasizes the role of human creativity and knowledge as the driving force behind progress. Michael sees this as an important addition to his Christian faith: the search for knowledge and the preservation of an open society are moral obligations. He believes that every technological advance must be ethically responsible because it brings humanity closer to the Omega Point and therefore closer to God.</p>
<p>Criticism of Harari and Dugin: The Struggle for the Future of Humanity</p>
<p>In sharp contrast to Harari, who in his books such as Homo Deus foresees the overcoming of humanism and liberal democracy by a technocratic elite, Michael believes in the inextricable connection between science, freedom and ethics. Michael sees Harari's vision of a posthumanist future as a threat to human dignity and freedom.</p>
<p>Michael also firmly rejects Dugin's authoritarian worldview. The Russian ideologue calls for a return to traditional values and a fight against Western liberalism. For Michael, this is a backwards approach that offers no answer to the complex challenges of the modern world. His vision of a better future relies on the knowledge, freedom and belief that through error correction and collaboration, humans can understand divine truth ever better.</p>
<p>Catholic, not “Vatican Catholic”: An open faith</p>
<p>Michael Phillips' faith is deeply rooted in the Catholic tradition, but he distinguishes between a rigid "Vatican" Catholicism and a "Catholic" (all-encompassing) faith. He follows in the tradition of Jesuits such as Teilhard de Chardin, who viewed the scientific and spiritual evolution of humanity as interconnected. Michael believes in a God who works not only through sacramental rituals in the church, but also through the intellectual search for truth and scientific progress.</p>
<p>Summary: The faith of Michael Phillips combines Christian tradition with the most modern scientific findings. By combining Popper's falsificationism and Deutsch's progressive thinking with Catholic theology and Teilhard de Chardin's omega point belief, Michael finds a synthesis that focuses on people and their search for knowledge. His rejection of holistic and authoritarian approaches such as those of Harari and Dugin demonstrates his determination to use both faith and science for the good of humanity.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
